Welcome to the wearable data science course in the AI for Healthcare Nanodegree.
In this course, we're going to talk about data that comes from
wearable devices and the techniques we use to process that data.
My name is Nikhil and I'll be your instructor.
I've spent the past five years working with wearables at Verily Life Sciences,
which is Alphabet's life sciences company.
I worked across various healthcare domains,
from cardiovascular disease to diabetes to
neurodegenerative diseases like multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease.
I'm really excited to be teaching
this course and I hope you're excited to be here as well.
Wearables have been around for a long time,
primarily as fitness devices.
Fitbit's first wrist wearable came out in 2009, but before that,
there were chest straps for measuring
your heart rates and hip devices for counting steps.
More recently, wearables are starting to be used in making
medical decisions and for clinical research.
There are a myriad of stories on wearables catching serious medical conditions early.
Take for example the story of a young woman in Florida who's
Apple watch alerted her that her heart rate was at a 160 beats per minute,
which is abnormally high,
especially for healthy young woman at rest, not exercising.
After seeing these notifications,
her parents took her to the urgent care which confirmed
that her heart rate was at a 190 beats per minute,
and she also had elevated blood pressure.
They recommended that she go to the emergency room,
where after doing some lab tests the doctors discovered that she had kidney failure.
So this story highlights all of the advantages of wearable devices.
They can monitor people continuously and unobtrusively,
and discover intermittent abnormalities and
their physiology that point to serious medical conditions.
In this case, they alerted this woman of her condition before it progressed to
the point where her symptoms might have ordinarily put her in the hospital.
Let's dive into this course and learn about
the algorithms that make wearables so compelling.